well let's move on to events in the
Middle East and Benjamin Netanyahu says
that the UK's decision to suspend some
armed sales to Israel is shameful
posting on X the Israeli Prime Minister
said the decision will not change
Israel's determination to defeat Hamas
adding that Britain's misguided decision
will only embolden Hamas he said Israel
is pursuing a just war with just means
he added with or without British arms
Israel will win this war the UK
suspended 30 out of 350 arms export
licenses to Israel saying there is a
clear risk the equipment could be used
to commit serious violations of
international law it follows a review by
the foreign secretary David Lamy who
says the government had a legal duty to
review all export licenses a foreign
Office document outlines the government
assessment that informed this move and
it focuses on three key factors
humanitarian saying Israel has not
fulfilled its duties to ensure essential
supplies get to people in Gaza with
insufficient levels of aid treatment of
detail
with a government assessment saying
there have been credible claims of the
mistreatment of detainees and conduct of
hostilities saying it's not possible to
reach a judgment on allegations about
Israel's conduct due to mass casualties
and difficulties in getting reliable
information from Gaza well UK arms sales
amount to just 1% of Israel's defense
Imports amounting to around 42 million
pounds in 2022 the suspended licenses
affect equipment like parts for fighter
jets helicopter Ops and drones the UK
defense secretary says the move won't
have a material impact on Israel's
security and insists the UK remains a
staunch Ally our determination to stand
with Israel to be part of the collective
defense if they come under direct attack
again as they have done before remains
Resolute and
absolute well Britain's Chief Rabbi is
amongst those who have criticized this
decision ifra mvy said on X it Beggars
belief the British government a close
strategic Ally of Israel has announced a
partial suspension of arms licenses he
added sadly this announcement will serve
to encourage our shared
enemies well I'm joined Now by Sir Alan
Duncan a former member of Parliament and
UK government advisor member of the
conservative party of course uh when in
active in politics um so Alan Duncan
thanks for being with us what's your
response to this um Announcement by the
British government uh not so much an
advisor as a former foreign minister
actually but doesn't that doesn't matter
too much uh I think uh the government
has got this absolutely right indeed I'm
surprised that it wasn't done a long
time ago uh under the conservative
government uh beforehand um I think
probably what has happened is that the
advice the legal advice inside the
foreign office and the department of
trade is so clear uh that they cannot
legally continue with some of these arms
exports to Israel and given what's
happening with the use of arms I think
this is a a proper thing to do anyway
because I think that Israel is out of
control I think that its response to
October the 7th has been utterly
excessive and
indefensible uh and so I think this is
the right decision and I hope that all
leadership contenders for the
conservative party will confirm that
they adhere to international law and
therefore agree with this
decision do you think it goes far enough
because obviously you're you're you're a
known um you've known been known
politically here in the UK for um not
being fully supportive of of everything
that Israel has done I mean how far do
you think the UK government should be
going yeah well I think they should go
further and more than that I'm I'm quite
a serious critic of what the uh Israelis
have done I think their conduct has been
despicable for a long time I mean this
is much more than about the excessive uh
activity in Gaza where we now see over
40,000 uh deaths many of them children
women and the complete destruction of
their habitable space I mean what
they've also been doing in the meantime
and I think there's been insufficient uh
International condemnation this is they
have raised their activity of
colonization on the West Bank so what
you have is massive settler violence uh
supported by the Israeli Defense Force
uh which is why I think there is an
added element to the illegality of what
Israel is doing that on the west bank
they are taking over their neighboring
country's land and what you have is
settler violence they're armed uh
they're bashing up Palestinians whose
rightful land it is and doing so with
the support of the IDF which means that
to all intents and purposes you have
state-backed terrorism in the West
Bank many would say that that your
position politically effectively plays
into the hands of Iran and withdraws
support for a key UK Ally which is
important for you know British national
security I don't think that argument
holds one jot I think what really
matters is a defense of international
law and I think I would suggest that
whenever you are interviewing anybody uh
including the chief Rabbi to say do you
agree that un resolutions which say that
uh West Bank settlements are illegal uh
mean that indeed they are illegal and if
they don't accept international law
you've got to throw back the question
well who then is the
extremist okay so D we will leave it
there thank you very much indeed for
joining us